content/authors/admin/_index.md, before:

---
# Display name
title: Siyuan Guo

# Name pronunciation (optional)
# name_pronunciation: Chien Shiung Wu

# Full name (for SEO)
first_name: Siyuan
last_name: Guo

# Status emoji
status:
  icon: ☕️

# Is this the primary user of the site?
superuser: true

# Role/position/tagline
role: Machine Learning Researcher

# Organizations/Affiliations to show in About widget
organizations:
  - name: University of Cambridge
    url: https://www.cst.cam.ac.uk/
  - name: Max Planck Institute for Intelligent Systems
    url: https://ei.is.mpg.de/

# Short bio (displayed in user profile at end of posts)
# bio: My research interests include distributed robotics, mobile computing and programmable matter.

# Interests to show in About widget
interests:
  - Physics of Learning
  - Machine Learning
  - AI for Science
  - Causality

# Education to show in About widget
education:
  courses:
    - course: PhD in Machine Learning
      institution: University of Cambridge and Max Planck Institute for Intelligent Systems
      year: 2021
    - course: Msc in Machine Learning
      institution: University College London
      year: 2020
    - course: Bachelor and Master in Mathematics
      institution: University of Cambridge
      year: 2015
        
# Social/Academic Networking
# For available icons, see: https://wowchemy.com/docs/getting-started/page-builder/#icons
#   For an email link, use "fas" icon pack, "envelope" icon, and a link in the
#   form "mailto:your-email@example.com" or "/#contact" for contact widget.
social:
  - icon: envelope
    icon_pack: fas
    link: 'mailto:sguo26v@gmail.com'
  - icon: twitter
    icon_pack: fab
    link: https://twitter.com/syguoML
    label: Follow me on Twitter
    display:
      header: true
  - icon: graduation-cap # Alternatively, use `google-scholar` icon from `ai` icon pack
    icon_pack: fas
    link: https://scholar.google.co.uk/citations?hl=en&pli=1&user=GRGyzn4AAAAJ
  - icon: github
    icon_pack: fab
    link: https://github.com/syguo96

  # Link to a PDF of your resume/CV.
  # To use: copy your resume to `static/uploads/resume.pdf`, enable `ai` icons in `params.yaml`,
  # and uncomment the lines below.
  - icon: cv
    icon_pack: ai
    link: uploads/CV_web_dec24.pdf

# Highlight the author in author lists? (true/false)
highlight_name: true
---
I am a machine learning researcher, curious about the nature of intelligence. I’ve been fortunate to spend time at the University of Cambridge, the Max Planck Institute for Intelligent Systems, and Meta FAIR in New York.

My work is guided by two intertwined questions:

1. **How can principles from nature guide the design of learning systems?**  
   → This underpins my recent [*physics of learning*](https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.21049) programme.

2. **How can we identify fundamental laws of nature directly from data?**  
   → This includes [*causal de Finetti*](https://arxiv.org/abs/2203.15756) line of work on the statistical foundations of causality and building a [foundation model for in-context causal inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.06039) on scientific applications.

My long-term interest is at the interface of AI and science: to help build a physics-inspired mathematical theory of intelligence and to use AI to accelerate scientific discovery.

---

Talk Bio: Siyuan Guo is a Ph.D in Machine Learning at the University of Cambridge and Max Planck Institute for Intelligent Systems, working with [Bernhard Schölkopf](https://is.mpg.de/~bs) and [Ferenc Huszár](https://www.inference.vc/about/). She is curious to understand intelligence and accelerate scientific discovery through AI. She has published in top-tier ML venues (e.g., NeurIPS and ICLR) with 1 **oral** and 2 **spotlights** acceptance. Her research is recognized as [MIT EECS Rising Star](https://is.mpg.de/ei/news/siyuan-guo-receives-the-mit-eecs-rising-star-award), the [G-research PhD prize](https://www.gresearch.com/news/g-research-2025-phd-prize-winners-university-of-cambridge/), and wins [MPI-IS Outstanding Female Doctoral Student Prize](https://is.mpg.de/news/siyuan-guo-wins-2024-mpi-is-outstanding-female-doctoral-student-prize). Her current research is supported under the [Cambridge-Tübingen Fellow](https://mlg.eng.cam.ac.uk/cambridge_tubingen_phd_fellowships/) and [Premium Research Studentship](https://www.cst.cam.ac.uk/admissions/phd/rs-premium).  


List of recent news: 

- **2024-09-25** _Do_ Finetti accepted in NeurIPS 2024 as **oral** presentation, with acceptance rate 0.46\%. 
- **2024-07-22** Off to start research scientist intern at [FAIR Meta](https://ai.meta.com/research/), NYC.
- **2024-07-19** Invited to lecture at [Cambridge Ellis Summer School](https://www.ellis.eng.cam.ac.uk/summer-school/). 
- **2024-07-05** Received the [MPI-IS Outstanding Female Doctoral Student Prize](https://is.mpg.de/news/siyuan-guo-wins-2024-mpi-is-outstanding-female-doctoral-student-prize)!!

I take great pleasure in (co-)mentoring a few talented and highly motivated students. It has been a great privilege
for me to constantly learn and get inspired by them. Here is a list of students I am working with in time-wise order:

- Anna Kerekes, PhD student at ETH Zurich, Feb 2024 - now
- Szilvia Ujváry, PhD student at Cambridge, Feb 2024 - now
- Davin Xianjun Choo, PhD student at NUS, Jun - Aug 2023

**Application** For motivated students interested in working on the Science of AI and AI for Science, please reach out via [sguo26v@gmail.com](sguo26v@gmail.com). 
  
{style="text-align: justify;"}

Commit message:

Enhance author bio with collaborator links
Added links to collaborators in the author bio.

content/authors/admin/_index.md, after:

---
# Display name
title: Siyuan Guo

# Name pronunciation (optional)
# name_pronunciation: Chien Shiung Wu

# Full name (for SEO)
first_name: Siyuan
last_name: Guo

# Status emoji
status:
  icon: ☕️

# Is this the primary user of the site?
superuser: true

# Role/position/tagline
role: Machine Learning Researcher

# Organizations/Affiliations to show in About widget
organizations:
  - name: University of Cambridge
    url: https://www.cst.cam.ac.uk/
  - name: Max Planck Institute for Intelligent Systems
    url: https://ei.is.mpg.de/

# Short bio (displayed in user profile at end of posts)
# bio: My research interests include distributed robotics, mobile computing and programmable matter.

# Interests to show in About widget
interests:
  - Physics of Learning
  - Machine Learning
  - AI for Science
  - Causality

# Education to show in About widget
education:
  courses:
    - course: PhD in Machine Learning
      institution: University of Cambridge and Max Planck Institute for Intelligent Systems
      year: 2021
    - course: Msc in Machine Learning
      institution: University College London
      year: 2020
    - course: Bachelor and Master in Mathematics
      institution: University of Cambridge
      year: 2015
        
# Social/Academic Networking
# For available icons, see: https://wowchemy.com/docs/getting-started/page-builder/#icons
#   For an email link, use "fas" icon pack, "envelope" icon, and a link in the
#   form "mailto:your-email@example.com" or "/#contact" for contact widget.
social:
  - icon: envelope
    icon_pack: fas
    link: 'mailto:sguo26v@gmail.com'
  - icon: twitter
    icon_pack: fab
    link: https://twitter.com/syguoML
    label: Follow me on Twitter
    display:
      header: true
  - icon: graduation-cap # Alternatively, use `google-scholar` icon from `ai` icon pack
    icon_pack: fas
    link: https://scholar.google.co.uk/citations?hl=en&pli=1&user=GRGyzn4AAAAJ
  - icon: github
    icon_pack: fab
    link: https://github.com/syguo96

  # Link to a PDF of your resume/CV.
  # To use: copy your resume to `static/uploads/resume.pdf`, enable `ai` icons in `params.yaml`,
  # and uncomment the lines below.
  - icon: cv
    icon_pack: ai
    link: uploads/CV_web_dec24.pdf

# Highlight the author in author lists? (true/false)
highlight_name: true
---
I am a machine learning researcher, curious about the nature of intelligence. I’ve been fortunate to spend time at the University of Cambridge, the Max Planck Institute for Intelligent Systems, and Meta FAIR in New York, working with [Bernhard Schölkopf](https://is.mpg.de/~bs) and [Ferenc Huszár](https://www.inference.vc/about/).

My work is guided by two intertwined questions:

1. **How can principles from nature guide the design of learning systems?**  
   → This underpins my recent [*physics of learning*](https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.21049) programme.

2. **How can we identify fundamental laws of nature directly from data?**  
   → This includes [*causal de Finetti*](https://arxiv.org/abs/2203.15756) line of work on the statistical foundations of causality and building a [foundation model for in-context causal inference](https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.06039) on scientific applications.

My long-term interest is at the interface of AI and science: to help build a physics-inspired mathematical theory of intelligence and to use AI to accelerate scientific discovery.

---

Talk Bio: Siyuan Guo is a Ph.D in Machine Learning at the University of Cambridge and Max Planck Institute for Intelligent Systems, working with [Bernhard Schölkopf](https://is.mpg.de/~bs) and [Ferenc Huszár](https://www.inference.vc/about/). She is curious to understand intelligence and accelerate scientific discovery through AI. She has published in top-tier ML venues (e.g., NeurIPS and ICLR) with 1 **oral** and 2 **spotlights** acceptance. Her research is recognized as [MIT EECS Rising Star](https://is.mpg.de/ei/news/siyuan-guo-receives-the-mit-eecs-rising-star-award), the [G-research PhD prize](https://www.gresearch.com/news/g-research-2025-phd-prize-winners-university-of-cambridge/), and wins [MPI-IS Outstanding Female Doctoral Student Prize](https://is.mpg.de/news/siyuan-guo-wins-2024-mpi-is-outstanding-female-doctoral-student-prize). Her current research is supported under the [Cambridge-Tübingen Fellow](https://mlg.eng.cam.ac.uk/cambridge_tubingen_phd_fellowships/) and [Premium Research Studentship](https://www.cst.cam.ac.uk/admissions/phd/rs-premium).  


List of recent news: 

- **2024-09-25** _Do_ Finetti accepted in NeurIPS 2024 as **oral** presentation, with acceptance rate 0.46\%. 
- **2024-07-22** Off to start research scientist intern at [FAIR Meta](https://ai.meta.com/research/), NYC.
- **2024-07-19** Invited to lecture at [Cambridge Ellis Summer School](https://www.ellis.eng.cam.ac.uk/summer-school/). 
- **2024-07-05** Received the [MPI-IS Outstanding Female Doctoral Student Prize](https://is.mpg.de/news/siyuan-guo-wins-2024-mpi-is-outstanding-female-doctoral-student-prize)!!

I take great pleasure in (co-)mentoring a few talented and highly motivated students. It has been a great privilege
for me to constantly learn and get inspired by them. Here is a list of students I am working with in time-wise order:

- Anna Kerekes, PhD student at ETH Zurich, Feb 2024 - now
- Szilvia Ujváry, PhD student at Cambridge, Feb 2024 - now
- Davin Xianjun Choo, PhD student at NUS, Jun - Aug 2023

**Application** For motivated students interested in working on the Science of AI and AI for Science, please reach out via [sguo26v@gmail.com](sguo26v@gmail.com). 
  
{style="text-align: justify;"}
